h1. == BGFit ==

h2. Description

BGFit provides a web-based unified platform, where a rich set of dynamic models can be fitted to experimental time-series data, further allowing to efficiently manage the results in a structured and hierarchical way.

The data managing system allows to organize projects, experiments and measurements data and also to define teams with different editing and viewing permission.

Several dynamic and algebraic models are already implemented, such as Polynomial Regression, Gompertz, Baranyi, Logistic and Live Cell Fraction models and the user can add easily new models thus expanding current ones.

h2. General Information

Publications, discussing results obtained with the help of BGFit, are asked to reference the following paper and webpage:

* Veríssimo, A., Paixão, L., Neves, A. R. & Vinga, S. BGFit: management and automated fitting of biological growth curves. BMC Bioinformatics 14, 283 (2013). (http://kdbio.inesc-id.pt/bgfit)

"INESC-ID":http://www.inesc-id.pt/
"KDBIO Research Group":http://www.inesc-id.pt/intranet/laboratoriogrupo/kdbio/kdbio.php

Contact developer at: averissimo (at) kdbio (dot) inesc-id (dot) pt

h2. Requirements

* "Ruby":http://www.ruby-lang.org/ (1.9.3 or 2.0.0)
* "MySQL 5":http://www.mysql.com/
* "Ruby on Rails":http://rubyonrails.org/ (3.1.3)
* "liboctave (3.6.4+), libmysqlclient"

h2. Installation

<pre>$ git clone https://github.com/averissimo/BGFit.git

$ gem install bundler

$ bundle install</pre>

Create mysql database.

Fill database.yml with mysql settings.

<pre>$ rake db:migrate

$ rake specs:features
(to perform tests)

$ rails s</pre>

h2. Acknowledgments

This work has been developed under the PneumoSYS project

Supported by "FCT":http://www.fct.mctes.pt/projectos/pub/2006/Painel_Result/vglobal_projecto.asp?idProjecto=100964&idElemConcurso=2742 under PTDC/SAU-MII/100964/2008
